Before we look at the annotations and what you can do with them,
it's important to understand how JAXB looks at the domain
model classes and what the basic principles are for
mapping classes and fields to XML.
When you are working with JAXB,
you are working with two representations of your domain model.
You have a Java representation, and you have an XML schema representation.
The purpose of JAXB is to translate between these two.
First,
let's look at JAXB looks at the Java domain model and then at how
this corresponds to the XML schema domain model.
The domain model in Java consists of a number of classes.
Each class contains a set of fields.
Each field has a name and a type which determines what
kind of data the field can contain.
The type can either be a simple value type or a type
with a more complex structure,
such as a class which contains its own set of fields.
Examples of value types are the Java primitive types or,
for example, class java.
lang.
String or class Java.
util.
Date, which are really just wrappers for a single value.
Another way to look at Java domain model classes is
from the JavaBeans perspective.
If you are not brand new to Java,
the idea of JavaBeans will be familiar to you because it's
used for many purposes by various APIs, libraries,
and frameworks.
A JavaBean is a class that has public getter and setter methods
that conform to the JavaBeans naming conventions.
The getter and setter methods define the properties of the JavaBean.
For example, if a class has a getStreet and setStreet method,
then the class is set to have a property named street.
JAXB can look at the domain model classes in different ways.
It can look directly at the fields of your class,
or it can look at your class from the JavaBeans
perspective where it looks at the properties,
which means that it will look for getter and setter methods.
Later in this module,
you will learn how you can tell JAXB to work directly with the fields
or to treat the domain model classes as JavaBeans.
For now,
it's important that you understand that the word
property refers to a JavaBeans property,
which is accessed through a getter and a setter method.
Some of the annotations that we'll take a look at can be
placed either on a field or on a property.
Putting an annotation on a property means that you put it on the getter
or setter method instead of on the underlying field.
Now let's look at the domain model from the XML schema perspective.
In XML schema,
the domain model consists of element and attribute declarations and the
definitions of a set of simple and complex types.
Remember that in Java, there are two kinds of types: value types,
which represent a single value, and class types,
which have a more complex structure.
These two kinds of types correspond naturally to XML
schema simple and complex types, and that is indeed how JAXB maps them.
This means that for fields and properties that have a value type,
you will get an XML element of a simple type,
which is an XML element with text content that represents the value.
You saw this in the output of the marshalling
example of the previous module where, for example,
the string fields of class Address appeared in the
XML as elements with text content.
For fields and properties that have a class type,
you get an XML element with child elements for its fields.
Examples of this are the purchaseOrder element and the customer element.
To summarize, JAXB can look at the domain model classes in two ways.
It either looks directly at the fields in each class,
or it looks at the JavaBeans properties,
which means that it works with getter and setter methods.
Fields and properties have a type.
There are two kinds of types: value types and class types.
Value types naturally map to XML schema.
Simple types and class types map to complex types. With this in mind, let's now take a look at the various JAXB annotations.